h1. FluentMigrator

Fluent migrations for .NET!

h2. Project Info

* *Project Home*: "code.google.com/p/fluentmigrator":http://code.google.com/p/fluentmigrator/
* *Discussions*: "fluentmigrator-google-group@googlegroups.com":http://groups.google.com/group/fluentmigrator-google-group
* *Bug/Feature Tracking*: "fluentmigrator.lighthouseapp.com/":http://fluentmigrator.lighthouseapp.com

h2. Getting started with the example project

The example project is a class library that contains the migrations, and a rakefile to wrap the Migrator.Console.exe calls. 
You will need ruby, rubygems and the rake gem installed. Instructions to do this can be found "here":http://rubyonrails.org/download

Run <pre><code>rake compile</code></pre> from the command line in the projects root directory. This will 
compile the application and copy the required files over to the example project 
src/FluentMigrator.Example/tools/FluentMigrator. cd into the example project and compile it:

<pre><code>cd src\FluentMigrator.Example

rake

rake -T</code></pre>

This will list the available commands

<pre><code>rake clean
rake compile
rake db:delete
rake db:migrate
rake db:migrate:up
rake db:migrate:down
rake db:rollback</code></pre>

The db:migrate commands can take an optional VERSION parameter

<pre><code>rake db:migrate VERSION=20090906205342</code></pre> 

db:rollback can take an optional STEPS parameter.

<pre><code>rake db:rollback STEPS=2</code></pre> 

h2. Example Migration

<pre><code>
[Migration(1)]
public class TestCreateAndDropTableMigration: Migration
{
	public override void Up()
	{
		Create.Table("TestTable")
			.WithColumn("Id").AsInt32().NotNullable().PrimaryKey().Identity()
			.WithColumn("Name").AsString(255).NotNullable().WithDefaultValue("Anonymous");

		Create.Table("TestTable2")
			.WithColumn("Id").AsInt32().NotNullable().PrimaryKey().Identity()
			.WithColumn("Name").AsString(255).Nullable()
			.WithColumn("TestTableId").AsInt32().NotNullable();

		Create.Index("ix_Name").OnTable("TestTable2").OnColumn("Name").Ascending()
			.WithOptions().NonClustered();

		Create.Column("Name2").OnTable("TestTable2").AsBoolean().Nullable();

		Create.ForeignKey("fk_TestTable2_TestTableId_TestTable_Id")
			.FromTable("TestTable2").ForeignColumn("TestTableId")
			.ToTable("TestTable").PrimaryColumn("Id");

		Insert.IntoTable("TestTable").Row(new { Name = "Test" });
	}

	public override void Down()
	{
		Delete.Table("TestTable2");
		Delete.Table("TestTable");
	}
}</code></pre>

h2. Example usage of console runner

<pre><code>tools\fluentmigrator\FluentMigrator.Console.exe /connection "Data Source=db\db.sqlite;Version=3;" /db sqlite /target build\Migrations.dll</code></pre>