---
uid: runner-console
title: Command Line Runner
---

# Command Line Runner Options

Migrate.exe can be called with the following parameters. The first three parameters are required if running a migration. A lot of the parameters have more than one switch for the same parameter. If a parameter has an = sign after it, then it expects some text value to be set, otherwise it is just a boolean switch e.g. the preview parameter. When writing the command, the = sign is optional (e.g. `--task=migrate` or `--task migrate`). Single dashes or double dashes is also optional e.g. `-task` or `--task`.

Examples:

```
Migrate.exe /conn "Data Source=db\db.sqlite;Version=3;" /provider sqlite /assembly your.migrations.dll /verbose
```

```
migrate --conn "server=.\SQLEXPRESS;uid=testfm;pwd=test;Trusted_Connection=yes;database=FluentMigrator" --provider sqlserver2008 --assembly "..\Migrations\bin\Debug\Migrations.dll" --task migrate --output --outputFilename migrated.sql
```
```
migrate -c "server=.\SQLEXPRESS;uid=testfm;pwd=test;Trusted_Connection=yes;database=FluentMigrator" -db sqlserver2008 -a "..\Migrations\bin\Debug\Migrations.dll" -t migrate -o -of migrated.sql
```

## `--assembly, -a, --target=VALUE` (required)

The assembly containing the migrations you want to execute.

## `--provider, --dbtype, --db=VALUE` (required)

The kind of database you are migrating against. Available choices are:

[!include[Supported databases](../../snippets/supported-databases.md)]

## `--connectionString, --connection, --conn, -c=VALUE` (required, can be a `connectionStringName`)

The connection string to the server and database you want to execute your migrations against. This can be a full connection string or the name of the connection string stored in a config file.

When specifying a named connection string, FluentMigrator searchs for it in this order:

1. The specified config file via `--connectionStringConfigPath`](#cscp)` parameter
2. Target assembly's config file
3. Machine.config config file

## `--connectionStringConfigPath, --configPath=VALUE`

The path of the config file where the connection string named by is found. This parameter is used together with the `--connectionString` parameter, the `--connectionString` parameter specifies the name of the connection string in the config file. If the config file looks like this:

``` xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<configuration>
  <connectionStrings>
    <clear />
    <add name="SRVConnectionString" connectionString="server=SQLEXPRESS;uid=test;pwd=test;database=FluentMigrator"/>
  </connectionStrings>
</configuration>
```

Then the `--connectionString` parameter should be set to SRVConnectionString.

If not specified, it defaults to lookup order specified in the `--connectionString` parameter documentation.

## `--task, -t=VALUE` (optional)

The task you want FluentMigrator to perform. Available choices are: 
* `migrate:up` 
* `migrate` (same as migrate:up)
* `migrate:down` (used in conjunction with the `--version` switch. *Warning:* if you don't supply `--version` this will revert _all_ migrations)
* `rollback` (per default this rollbacks one step. Use the `--steps` switch to rollback more steps)
* `rollback:toversion` (used in conjuction with the `--version` switch. Will rollback all versions down to the specified version, not including the specified version. The Migration attribute contains the version that should be used with the `--version` switch.)
* `rollback:all`
* `listmigrations`

Default is 'migrate'.

## `--verbose=VALUE` (optional)

Show the SQL statements generated and execution time in the console. Default is false. This should be a boolean switch but is not. VALUE can be anything to set to true and the switch should not be specified to set it to false. For example, --verbose qwerty would set it to true.

## `--output, --out, -o` (optional)

Output generated SQL to a file. Default is no output. Use outputFilename to control the filename, otherwise `[assemblyname].sql` is the default. This is a boolean switch so it does not take a value.

## `--outputFilename, --outfile, --of=VALUE` (optional)

The name of the file to output the generated SQL to. The output option must be included for output to be saved to the file.

## `--namespace, --ns=VALUE` (optional)

The namespace that contains the migrations you want to run. Default is all migrations found within the Target Assembly will be run.

## `--nested` (optional)

Whether migrations in nested namespaces should be included. Used in conjunction with the namespace option. The default is false so that nested namespaces are not included. This is a boolean switch so it does not take a value.

## `--steps=VALUE` (optional)

The number of versions to rollback if the task is 'rollback'. Default is 1.

## `--preview, -p` (optional)

Only output the SQL generated by the migration - do not execute it. Default is false. This is a boolean switch so it does not take a value.

## `--version=VALUE` (optional)

The specific version to migrate. Default is 0, which will run all migrations. The version of a migration is the unique identifier that is contained in the Migration attribute. For example, if a Migration has this attribute `[Migration(201303062126)]` then the version is 201303062126.

## `--profile=VALUE` (optional)

The "profile":https://github.com/schambers/fluentmigrator/wiki/Profiles to run after executing migrations.

## `--timeout=VALUE` (optional)

Overrides the default SqlCommand timeout of 30 seconds.

## `--workingdirectory, --wd=VALUE` (optional)

The directory to load SQL scripts specified by migrations from.

## `--tag=VALUE`

Filters migrations to be run based on tags. See [Filter migrations run based on tags](xref:migration-filter-tags)

## `--context=VALUE`

A string argument that can be used in a migration. See [ApplicationContext: Passing parameters to Migrations](xref:app-context)

## `--transaction-per-session, --tps` (optional)

The default transaction is one transaction per migration so the default for this switch is false. Run migrations in one transaction per session (task) instead. This is a boolean switch so it does not take a value.

## `--stopOnError`

Pauses migration execution until the user input if any error occured. Default is false.

## `--allow-breaking-changes`

Allows execution of migrations marked as breaking changes. Default is false.

## `--help, -h, -?`

Displays help menu.

## `--providerswitches=VALUE`

Specify provider specific options, for instance:

- (Oracle) QUOTEDIDENTIFIERS=TRUE, which will quote identifiers always
- (Firebird) Force Quote=true, which will quote identifiers always
